Added whats new for core 3 preview 3 (#11797)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/whats-new/dotnet-core-3-0.md

  - "vb"
author: thraka
ms.author: adegeo

> ms.date: 04/11/2018

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.date: 04/11/2019
```

  - "vb"
author: thraka
ms.author: adegeo
ms.date: 04/11/2018
---

# What's new in .NET Core 3.0 (Preview 3)

This article describes what is new in .NET Core 3.0 (preview 3). One of the biggest enhancements is support for Windows desktop applications (Windows only). By utilizing a .NET Core 3.0 SDK component called Windows Desktop, you can port your Windows Forms and Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) applications. To be clear, the Windows Desktop component is only supported and included on Windows. For more information, see the section [Windows desktop](#windows-desktop) below.

.NET Core 3.0 adds support for C# 8.0.

> [Download and get started with .NET Core 3.0 Preview 3](https://aka.ms/netcore3download) right now on Windows, Mac and Linux. You can see complete details of the release in the [.NET Core 3.0 Preview 3 release notes](https://aka.ms/netcore3releasenotes).

Reviewer: Are you running Acrolinx? Oxford commas and things like that are captured by Acrolinx.

```suggestion
[Download and get started with .NET Core 3.0 Preview 3](https://aka.ms/netcore3download) right now on Windows, Mac, and Linux. You can see complete details of the release in the [.NET Core 3.0 Preview 3 release notes](https://aka.ms/netcore3releasenotes).
```

- [.NET Core 3.0 Preview 1 announcement](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/announcing-net-core-3-preview-1-and-open-sourcing-windows-desktop-frameworks/)

## .NET Core SDK Windows Installer

The MSI installer for Windows has changed with .NET Core 3.0 Preview 3. The SDK installers will now upgrade in place.

The upgrade policy will specifically target .NET Core SDK feature bands. Feature bands are defined in hundreds groups in the patch section of the version number. For example, **3.0.101** and **3.0.201** are versions in two different feature bands while **3.0.101** and **3.0.199** are in the same feature band.

This means when .NET Core SDK **3.0.101** becomes available and is installed, .NET Core SDK **3.0.100** will be removed from the machine if it exists. When .NET Core SDK **3.0.200** becomes available and is installed on the same machine, .NET Core SDK **3.0.101** will not be removed. In that situation, .NET Core SDK **3.0.200** will still be used by default, but .NET Core SDK **3.0.101** (or higher **.1xx** versions) will still be usable if it is configured for use via [global.json](../tools/global-json.md).

## C# 8

> .NET Core 3.0 supports C# 8. For more information about C# 8.0 features, see the following blog posts:

Author: Thank you for pointing that out.

In addition to being able to `await foreach`, you can also create async iterators, for example, an iterator that returns an `IAsyncEnumerable/IAsyncEnumerator` that you can both `await` and `yield` in. For objects that need to be disposed, you can use `IAsyncDisposable`, which various BCL types implement, such as `Stream` and `Timer`.

> [!NOTE]

> > You need .NET Core 3.0 Preview 2+ to use async streams if you want to develop with either Visual Studio 2019 or the latest preview of the [C# extension for Visual Studio Code](https://github.com/OmniSharp/omnisharp-vscode/releases/tag/v1.18.0-beta5). If you are using .NET Core 3.0 Preview 2+ at the command line, then everything will work as expected.

Reviewer: \+ is not very friendly for loc

```suggestion
> You need .NET Core 3.0 Preview 2 or later versions to use async streams if you want to develop with either Visual Studio 2019 or the latest preview of the [C# extension for Visual Studio Code](https://github.com/OmniSharp/omnisharp-vscode/releases/tag/v1.18.0-beta5). If you're using .NET Core 3.0 Preview 2 and later versions at the command line, then everything works as expected.
```

> ### Using Declarations

Author: I deleted all this in favor of the C#8 what's new article you pointed out.

* `CopySign`\
Corresponds to the `copySign` IEEE operation, it returns the value of `x`, but with the sign of `y`.

## .NET Platform-Dependent Intrinsics

APIs have been added that allow access to certain perf-oriented CPU instructions, such as the **SIMD** or **Bit Manipulation instruction** sets. These instructions can help achieve significant performance improvements in certain scenarios, such as processing data efficiently in parallel. In addition to exposing the APIs for your programs to use, the .NET libraries have begun using these instructions to improve performance.

> The following CoreCLR PRs demonstrate a few of the intrinsics, either via implementation or use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following CoreCLR pull requests demonstrate a few of the intrinsics, either via implementation or use:
```

For more information, see [Do more with patterns in C# 8.0](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/do-more-with-patterns-in-c-8-0/).

## .NET Standard 2.1

> Even though .NET Core 3.0 supports **.NET Standard 2.1**, the default `dotnet new classlib` template will generate a project that targets **.NET Standard 2.0**. In order to target **.NET Standard 2.1**, you’ll have to edit your project file and change the `TargetFramework` property to `netstandard2.1`:

Author: `-f netstandard2.1` does not work yet 😄

```xml
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">
 
  <PropertyGroup>
    <TargetFramework>netstandard2.1</TargetFramework>
  </PropertyGroup>
 
</Project>
```

If you are using Visual Studio, you will need Visual Studio 2019 as Visual Studio 2017 will not support **.NET Standard 2.1**.

## IEEE Floating-point improvements

> Floating point APIs are in the process of being updated to comply with [IEEE 754-2008 revision](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEEE_754-2008_revision). The goal of these changes is to expose all "required" operations and ensure that they are behaviorally compliant with the IEEE spec. For more information about floating-point improvements, see the [blog post](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/floating-point-parsing-and-formatting-improvements-in-net-core-3-0/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Floating point APIs are in the process of being updated to comply with [IEEE 754-2008 revision](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEEE_754-2008_revision). The goal of these changes is to expose all "required" operations and ensure that they are behaviorally compliant with the IEEE spec. For more information about floating-point improvements, see the [Floating-Point Parsing and Formatting improvements in .NET Core 3.0](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/floating-point-parsing-and-formatting-improvements-in-net-core-3-0/) blog post.
```

> <RuntimeIdentifiers>win-x86;win-x64</RuntimeIdentifiers>
> ```

## WinForms HighDPI

.NET Core Windows Forms applications can set High DPI mode with <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Application.SetHighDpiMode(System.Windows.Forms.HighDpiMode)>. The `SetHighDpiMode` method sets the corresponding High DPI mode unless the setting has been set by other means like `App.Manifest` or P/Invoke before `Application.Run`.

The possible `highDpiMode` values, as expressed by the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.HighDpiMode> enum are:

* `DpiUnaware`
* `SystemAware`
* `PerMonitor`
* `PerMonitorV2`
* `DpiUnawareGdiScaled`

For more information about High DPI modes, see [High DPI Desktop Application Development on Windows](/windows/desktop/hidpi/high-dpi-desktop-application-development-on-windows).

## Fast built-in JSON support

The .NET ecosystem has relied on [**Json.NET**](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json) and other popular JSON libraries, which continue to be good choices. **Json.NET** uses .NET strings as its base datatype, which is UTF-16 under the hood.

> The new built-in JSON support is high-performance, low allocation, and based on `Span<byte>`. Three new main JSON-related types have been added to .NET Core 3.0 the `System.Text.Json` namespace.

Reviewer: use api link here and also in other parts of the text where you refer to specific APIs?

```suggestion
The new built-in JSON support is high-performance, low allocation, and based on `Span<byte>`. Three new main JSON-related types have been added to .NET Core 3.0 the <xref:System.Text.Json> namespace.
```

> The new built-in JSON support is high-performance, low allocation, and based on `Span<byte>`. Three new main JSON-related types have been added to .NET Core 3.0 the `System.Text.Json` namespace.

Reviewer: samples should be added to https://github.com/dotnet/samples/tree/master/core/whats-new and have C# and VB versions.

> 

Reviewer: Line 326 talks about Preview 1. I believe the status has changed since then and coming next should be reviewed. @ahsonkhan can probably comment on this section.

<RuntimeIdentifiers>win-x86;win-x64</RuntimeIdentifiers>
```

## WinForms HighDPI

> .NET Core Windows Forms applications can set High DPI mode with <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Application.SetHighDpiMode(System.Windows.Forms.HighDpiMode)>. The `SetHighDpiMode` method will set the corresponding High DPI mode unless the setting has been set by other means like `App.Manifest` or P/Invoke before `Application.Run`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.NET Core Windows Forms applications can set High DPI mode with <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Application.SetHighDpiMode(System.Windows.Forms.HighDpiMode)>. The `SetHighDpiMode` method sets the corresponding High DPI mode unless the setting has been set by other means like `App.Manifest` or P/Invoke before `Application.Run`.
```

> The possible `HighDPIMode` values, as expressed by the `HighDpiMode` enum are:

Reviewer: xref links here to the enum and the fields? And what are these `HighDPIMode` values, that is, what's that first one referring to?

Author: I cant xref to individual items, but I can add one to the enum.

> 

Reviewer: Previous line missing period.

The [MetadataLoadContext tests](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/tree/master/src/System.Reflection.MetadataLoadContext/tests/src/Tests) demonstrate many use cases. The [Assembly tests](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/blob/master/src/System.Reflection.MetadataLoadContext/tests/src/Tests/Assembly/AssemblyTests.cs) are a good place to start.

## Type: AssemblyDependencyResolver

Loading dependent assemblies from a given path was not supported in .NET Core. Now with the <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyDependencyResolver> type, you can help `AssemblyLoadContext` resolve paths to dependent assemblies. For code examples, see the [AppWithPlugin Demo](https://github.com/dotnet/samples/tree/master/core/extensions/AppWithPlugin).

## Type: NativeLibrary

<xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.NativeLibrary> provides an encapsulation for loading a native library (using the same load logic as .NET Core P/Invoke) and providing the relevant helper functions such as `getSymbol`. For a code example, see the [DLLMap Demo](https://github.com/dotnet/samples/tree/master/core/extensions/AppWithPlugin).

> https://github.com/dotnet/samples/tree/master/core/extensions/DllMapDemo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## TLS 1.3 & OpenSSL 1.1.1 on Linux

.NET Core now takes advantage of [TLS 1.3 support in OpenSSL 1.1.1](https://www.openssl.org/blog/blog/2018/09/11/release111/), when it's available in a given environment. There are multiple benefits of TLS 1.3, per the [OpenSSL team](https://www.openssl.org/blog/blog/2018/09/11/release111/):

* Improved connection times due to a reduction in the number of round trips required between the client and server.

> 

Reviewer: line 525 is still talking about Preview 1. Time for an update?

is capable of utilizing -> can use

## Type: AssemblyDependencyResolver

Loading dependent assemblies from a given path was not supported in .NET Core. Now with the <xref:System.Runtime.Loader.AssemblyDependencyResolver> type, you can help `AssemblyLoadContext` resolve paths to dependent assemblies. For code examples, see the [AppWithPlugin Demo](https://github.com/dotnet/samples/tree/master/core/extensions/AppWithPlugin).

## Type: NativeLibrary

<xref:System.Runtime.InteropServices.NativeLibrary> provides an encapsulation for loading a native library (using the same load logic as .NET Core P/Invoke) and providing the relevant helper functions such as `getSymbol`. For a code example, see the [DLLMap Demo](https://github.com/dotnet/samples/tree/master/core/extensions/AppWithPlugin).
https://github.com/dotnet/samples/tree/master/core/extensions/DllMapDemo

## TLS 1.3 & OpenSSL 1.1.1 on Linux

> .NET Core will now take advantage of [TLS 1.3 support in OpenSSL 1.1.1](https://www.openssl.org/blog/blog/2018/09/11/release111/), when it is available in a given environment. There are multiple benefits of TLS 1.3, per the [OpenSSL team](https://www.openssl.org/blog/blog/2018/09/11/release111/):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.NET Core now takes advantage of [TLS 1.3 support in OpenSSL 1.1.1](https://www.openssl.org/blog/blog/2018/09/11/release111/), when it's available in a given environment. There are multiple benefits of TLS 1.3, per the [OpenSSL team](https://www.openssl.org/blog/blog/2018/09/11/release111/):
```

> Some distros require an additional step to enable access to the SSL certificate. See our [Linux Setup](https://github.com/dotnet/core/blob/master/Documentation/linux-setup.md) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some distributions require an additional step to enable access to the SSL certificate. For more information, see [Linux Setup](https://github.com/dotnet/core/blob/master/Documentation/linux-setup.md).
```

## Docker and cgroup memory Limits

> As of Preview 3, running .NET Core 3.0 on Linux with Docker works better with cgroup memory limits. Running a Docker container with memory limits, such as with `docker run -m`, changes how .NET Core behaves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with Preview 3, running .NET Core 3.0 on Linux with Docker works better with cgroup memory limits. Running a Docker container with memory limits, such as with `docker run -m`, changes how .NET Core behaves.
```

The GC change is the most critical part of our memory limits solution. It's also important to [update BCL APIs to honor cgroup settings](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/35638). Those changes are not included in Preview 3 but will come later. We’d appreciate feedback on which BCL APIs are most important to update first ([another example](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/32748)).

## GPIO Support for Raspberry Pi

Two new packages have been released to NuGet that you can use for GPIO programming.

* [System.Device.Gpio](https://www.nuget.org/packages/System.Device.Gpio/0.1.0-prerelease.19078.2)
* [Iot.Device.Bindings](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Iot.Device.Bindings/0.1.0-prerelease.19078.2)

The GPIO packages include APIs for GPIO, SPI, I2C, and PWM devices. The IoT bindings package includes [device bindings](https://github.com/dotnet/iot/blob/master/src/devices/README.md) for various chips and sensors, the same ones available at [dotnet/iot - src/devices](https://github.com/dotnet/iot/tree/master/src/devices).

> The updated serial port APIs that were announced as part of .NET Core 3.0 Preview 1 are not part of these packages but are available as part of the .NET Core platform.

Reviewer: Should you simplify this?

```suggestion
The updated serial port APIs are not part of these packages but are available as part of the .NET Core platform.
```

> 

Reviewer: We don't typically cover platform support on the what's new article. We usually cover versions supported in the prereqs topics instead.

Author: I'll clean this up in the next update.

Some distros require an additional step to enable access to the SSL certificate. See our [Linux Setup](https://github.com/dotnet/core/blob/master/Documentation/linux-setup.md) for details.

## Docker and cgroup memory Limits

> As of Preview 3, Running .NET Core 3.0 on Linux with Docker works better with cgroup memory limits. Running a Docker container with memory limits, such as with `docker run -m`, will change how .NET Core behaves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of Preview 3, running .NET Core 3.0 on Linux with Docker works better with cgroup memory limits. Running a Docker container with memory limits, such as with `docker run -m`, changes how .NET Core behaves.
```

Reviewer: Should cgroup be inside backticks?

* Default GC heap size: maximum of 20mb or 75% of the memory limit on the container.
* Explicit size can be set as an absolute number or percentage of cgroup limit.

> * Minimum reserved segment size per GC heap is 16mb, which will reduce the number of heaps created on machines with a large number of cores and small memory limits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Minimum reserved segment size per GC heap is 16mb, which reduces the number of heaps created on machines with a large number of cores and small memory limits.
```

> The GC change is the most critical part of our memory limits solution. It is also important to [update BCL APIs to honor cgroup settings](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/35638). Those changes are not included in Preview 3 but will come later. We’d appreciate feedback on which BCL APIs are most important to update first ([another example](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/32748)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GC change is the most critical part of our memory limits solution. It's also important to [update BCL APIs to honor cgroup settings](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/35638). Those changes are not included in Preview 3 but will come later. We’d appreciate feedback on which BCL APIs are most important to update first ([another example](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/32748)).
```
